---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-20T01:39:57.473Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-20T01:39:57.167Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-20-89d7aec8-bcbb-448d-9f12-00eefd17671d.md
published: true
url: 89d7aec8-bcbb-448d-9f12-00eefd17671d/index.html
_type: Article

---
Discipline. 

Do you like that word?

I don't. 

Discipline means restrictions. Discipline means having self-control. Discipline means stretching myself to a point of discomfort. I don't like that. Because I want to have a six pack but I also want Taco Bell. See my predicament?

Yet, what I was reminded of this past Sunday in Brian Moll's[**teaching**][0]at Canvas is that discipline is the gateway to freedom. If you want freedom you can't have it without discipline. A dream minus discipline equals a daydream. 

Think of it this way. If you want to have the freedom to play the piano at a high level you will have to do more than buy a piano. Buying the piano is the easy part. Listening to other piano players play as you dream about one day being able to play as well as them is the easy part. But it will take great discipline to practice for hours instead of watching tv or hanging out with friends. It will take great discipline to budget your time in order to invest that time into honing your skills. But that very discipline will become the gateway to achieve the freedom to play the piano the way you've dreamed about. 

The same is true if you want to be an actor, lead a successful business, make the perfect cup of coffee or write that book. Every dream turned into a reality is the byproduct of great discipline. 

I know that you have a dream or goal for your life. 

**But what differentiates those who dream and those who_do_are those who are disciplined. **

Where in your life is a lack of discipline bottlenecking you're ability to be free?

What is one thing you can start doing now to become more disciplined?

If that one change would lead to more freedom than why wouldn't you start as soon as possible?

[0]: https://networkcmo.com/Canvas